I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT: AN INDICTMENT OF MURDER
FOR A ROUTINE TRAFFIC STOP
TURNED VIOLENT.
A WHITE UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI
POLICE OFFICER FACES CHARGES FOR
FATALLY SHOOTING AUNARN MED
BLACK MAN, SAMUEL DUBOSE.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, TALIBAN
LEADER MULLAH OMAR CONFIRMED
DEAD.
A STRUGGLE FOR POWER, NEW
LEADERSHIP AND THE PROSPECTS FOR
PEACE IN AFGHANISTAN.
>> Ifill: THEN, FROM SYRIA TO
UKRAINE, CONFRONTING THE WORLD'S
IMMINENT CRISES.
THE SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER OF
NATO, GENERAL PHILIP BREEDLOVE,
ON DIPLOMACY AND GLOBAL THREATS.
>> Woodruff: AND, DIGGING DOWN
TO THE ROOTS OF AMERICAN
HISTORY.
ARCHAEOLOGISTS DISCOVER THE
REMAINS OF FOUR EARLY COLONY
LEADERS IN A JAMESTOWN GRAVESITE
MORE THAN 400 YEARS OLD.
ALL THAT AND MORE ON TONIGHT'S
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: A WHITE POLICE OFFICER
WAS INDICTED TODAY FOR KILLING A
BLACK MOTORIST DURING A TRAFFIC
STOP IN CINCINNATI.
RAY TENSING IS ACCUSED OF
MURDERING THE DRIVER, SAMUEL
DUBOSE, WHEN HE WAS PULLED OVER
NEAR THE UNIVERSITY OF
CINCINNATI CAMPUS ON JULY 19TH,
FOR NOT HAVING A FRONT LICENSE
PLATE.
TENSING SAID HE WAS DRAGGED BY
THE CAR AND FORCED TO SHOOT
DUBOSE.
BUT FOOTAGE FROM THE BODY CAMERA
HE WAS WEARING REVEALED A
DIFFERENT SEQUENCE OF EVENTS AS
THE CAR ROLLED AWAY ONLY AFTER
DUBOSE WAS SHOT.
WE'RE NOT SHOWING THE MOMENT THE
GUN FIRED.
AFTER REVIEWING THE VIDEO,
HAMILTON COUNTY PROSECUTOR JOE
DETERS SAID THERE WAS NO DOUBT
IN HIS MIND IT WAS MURDER.
>> COULD YOU IMAGINE THE OUTRAGE
YOU WOULD HAVE IF THIS WAS YOUR
KID OR BROTHER?
OVER A STOP LIKE THIS?
AND HE DIDN'T DO ANYTHING
VIOLENT TOWARDS THE OFFICER.
HE WASN'T DRAGGING HIM.
AND HE PULLED OUT HIS GUN AND
INTENTIONALLY SHOT HIM IN THE
HEAD.
>> Ifill: THE VICTIM'S FAMILY
PUSHED AUTHORITIES TO RELEASE
THE BODY CAMERA FOOTAGE TODAY.
DUBOSE'S SISTER, TERINA ALLEN,
SAID IT WAS CRUCIAL TO SHOW WHAT
REALLY HAPPENED.
>> HE DIDN'T HAVE A GUN.
HE DIDN'T DO ANYTHING TO THAT
OFFICER.
NO ONE DESERVES THIS.
SO I'M ANGRY, BUT I'M AS PLEASED
AS I CAN BE THAT WE'RE ACTUALLY
GOING TO GET SOME KIND OF
JUSTICE FOR SAM, BUT I DON'T
THINK WE WOULD BE GETTING IT, TO
GET BACK TO THAT, WITHOUT THE
CAMERA.
>> Ifill: TENSING TURNED HIMSELF
IN THIS AFTEOON AND WAS
PROCESSED ON CHARGES OF MURDER
AND VOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER.
HE HAS A COURT APPEARANCE
SCHEDULED TOMORROW MORNING.
FOR MORE ON THIS, I SPOKE A
SHORT TIME AGO TO SHARON
COOLIDGE OF THE "CINCINNATI
ENQUIRER."
TEST SHARON COOLIDGE, THANKS
FOR JOINING US.
TELL US WHAT NEW DETAILS
EMERGED TODAY AFTER THE
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE
PROSECUTOR?
>> WELL, WE HAVEN'T-- I
THINK THE BIGGEST SURPRISE
CAME WHEN THE PROSECUTOR
ACTUALLY HAD HIS PRESS
CONFERENCE TODAY.
JUDGING FROM WHAT WE HEARD
FROM THE POLICE CHIEF AND
THE CITY MANAGER THIS WEEK,
WE WERE EXPECTING AN
INDICTMENT.
BUT NOBODY WAS EXPECTING THE
PROSECUTOR TO SAY THE WORD
"MURDER"
SO THAT REALLY HAS KEPT, I
MEAN, PUT PEOPLE, WE WERE
PROPELLED OUT FROM THERE
TODAY.
>> Ifill: SO IT WAS THE
VIDEO THAT CHANGED THE
COURSE OF WHAT YOU SAW
HAPPEN TODAY, THE ACTUAL
SHOWING OF THAT VIDEO?
>> OH, DEFINITELY.
WE HAD ALL REALLY BEEN
CLAMOURING TO SEE THE VIDEO.
AND THE ENQUIRERER, WE STILL
HAVE A LAWSUIT LAST WEEK, WE
BELIEVE IT WAS PUBLIC RECORD
ALL ALONG.
THE PROSECUTOR FINALLY
RELEASED IT TODAY.
AND SEEING THE VIDEO REALLY
MADE THINGS A LOT MORE CLEAR
IN THIS CASE, I THINK, FOR
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
>> Ifill: NOW HOW DID WHAT
WE SAW ON THE VIDEO DIFFER
FROM WE HAD KNOWN OR WHAT
THE OFFICER HAD SAID HAD
HAPPENED BEFORE?
>> I'M WORKING THROUGH THAT
RIGHT NOW AND I HAVE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SEE A SECOND
VIDEO THIS AFTERNOON.
YOU KNOW, THE OFFICER AND
WE'VE NOT SPOKEN SDREKLY TO
THAT OFFICER, ONLY TO HIS
ATTORNEY, STUART MATHEWS IS
WAS DRAGGED.
AND KNOCKED DOWN DURING
WHAT-- DURING THE INCIDENT.
AND WE JUST HAVE NOT SEEN
THAT ON VIDEO YET.
DEFINITELY THE VIDEO
RELEASED BY THE PROSECUTOR
TODAY DOES NOT SHOW THAT.
THE SECOND VIDEO WHICH WAS
ATTACHED TO THE BODY CAMERA
FROM ANOTHER OFFICER
ARRIVING AT THE SCENE DOES
SHOW OFFICER TENSING ON THE
GROUND AM BUT IT DOESN'T
SHOW WHAT LEAD UP TO THE
OFFICER BEING ON THE GROUND.
>> Ifill: SO ALL WE KNOW
RIGHT NOW IS THAT THAT GUN
WAS DISCHARGED.
THE CARROLLED AWAY AND THE
QUESTION IS WHAT HAPPENED
BETWEEN THOSE TWO MOMENTS.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
THE PROSECUTOR IS INSISTING
THAT NOTHING HAPPENED
BETWEEN THOSE TWO MOMENTS.
AND THE VIDEO REALLY, IT
JUST DOESN'T SHOW SOMETHING
HAPPENING.
IT SHOWS A PEACEFUL, YOU
KNOW, CONVERSATION WHERE,
YOU KNOW, WHERE DUBOSE ASKED
A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHY HE IS BEING PULLED OVER
BUT IS VERY CIVIL, IS VERY
RESPECTFUL.
AND IT'S JUST A COUPLE OF
QUESTIONS.
AND WE DON'T SEE A REASON ON
ANY OF THE VIDEO FOR A
SHOOTING.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT LEAD
TO THE MURDER CHARGE.
>> Ifill: JOE DETERS TALKED
PRETTY TOUGHED TODAY, THE
PROSECUTOR.
WAS THAT UNUSUAL FOR HIM SO
OR IS THAT WHAT YOU HAVE
COME TO EXPECT COVERING HIM?
>> JOE DETERS DOES TALK-- HE
HAS TOUGH TALK FOR CRIMINALS
IN THIS TOWN.
AND HE'S KNOWN FOR THAT.
BUT IN POLICE OFFICER CASES,
HE'S TYPICALLY BEEN MORE
RESERVED.
AND WE'VE NEVER, OF COURSE,
SEEN SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
THIS REALLY I THINK IS THE
FIRST IF THE COUNTRY.
BUT IN OTHER CASES WHERE
THERE IS AN OFFIR-INCEVOLVED
SHOOTING, HE DOESN'T TALK
LIKE THIS.
THOSE CASES ARE RESERVED
REALLY FOR WHAT HE CAN SEE
IN VIDEOS AND DIFFERENT
KINDS OF CASES, NOT IN
OFFICER CASES.
SO TO HEAR HIM TALK TODAY
LIKE HE DID IN A CASE
INVOLVING A POLICE OFFICER
WAS REALLY TONING
TO-- STUNNING TO ME.
>> Ifill: WAS THERE A
DISTINCTION WITH THE FACT
THAT THIS WAS A UNIVERSITY
POLICE OFFICER AND NOT A
CITY OF CINCINNATI POLICE
OFFICER?
>> WELL, THERE DEFINITELY IS
A DISTINCTION.
THE CITY POLICE HAVE BEEN
REMINDING OF THAT ALL WEEK
BECAUSE THEY ARE COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT POLICE FORCES.
AND I THINK THAT'S BEEN MADE
CLEAR.
BUT THEY ARE STILL POLICE
OFFICERS.
THEY ARE TRAINED, YOU KNOW,
THEY'RE PART.
UNION.
THESE ARE POLICE OFFICERS,
PROTECTING OUR CITIZENS.
OUR STUDENTS.
SO IN THIS-- THERE IS NO
DIFFERENCE.
THIS WAS A POLICE OFFICER.
>> Ifill: AND SO FAR WHAT DO
WE KNOW ABOUT COMMUNITY
REACTION, ESPECIALLY IN THE
WAKE OF THE FAMILY
STATEMENTS TODAY?
>> COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN
CINCINNATI, I WOULD SAY,
ARE-- IT'S TENSE.
PEOPLE WANTED TO SEE THE
VIDEO.
NO WITHIN IS QUITE SURE WHAT
TO EXPECT TONIGHT BECAUSE IT
WAS HANDLED SO WELL WITH,
THIS WASN'T A CASE WHERE
PEOPLE THINK OH, THIS
OFFICER WAS UNDERCHARGED.
SO I'M EXPECTING THERE TO BE
A PEACEFUL MARCH WHERE
PEOPLE WILL MAKE THEIR
VOICES HEARD BUT DO IT IN A
RESPECTFUL MANNER.
AND CERTAINLY THE FAMILY IS
CALLING FOR THAT.
>> Ifill: SHARON COOLIDGE OF
THE "CINCINNATI ENQUIRER",
THANK YOU FOR TAKING TIME ON
THIS BREAKING STORY TODAY TO
TALK TO US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE MORE ON THE
STORY ONLINE, INCLUDING THE
COMMUNITY'S RESPONSE FROM A
MEMBER OF THE ENQUIRER'S
EDITORIAL BOARD, BYRON McCAULY.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER NEWS, THE
TURKISH MILITARY UNLEASHED A
POWERFUL NEW BARRAGE OF
AIRSTRIKES ON KURDISH REBEL
TARGETS IN NORTHERN IRAQ
OVERNIGHT.
THEY POUNDED KURDISTAN WORKERS
PARTY-- OR P.K.K.-- SITES IN SIX
AREAS.
THE PRO-KURDISH OPPOSITION
DEMANDED AN END TO THE VIOLENCE
TODAY, CHARGING A POLITICAL
MOTIVE BY PRESIDENT ERDOGAN.
BUT IN ANKARA, TURKEY'S PRIME
MINISTER WARNED PEACE WILL ONLY
BE ACHIEVED IF REBEL FIGHTERS
STOP ALL THEIR ATTACKS.
STOP ALL THEIR ATTACKS. >> (
translated): OUR MIGHT
IS
>> (translated): OUR
MIGHT IS ENOUGH TO
SIMULTANEOUSLY FIGHT
ENOUGH TO SIMULTANEOUSLY FIGHT
NOT JUST THREE TERROR
ORGANIZATIONS, BUT 33.
AND WE WILL SHOW THAT MIGHT.
WITHIN THIS FRAMEWORK, WE WILL
CONTINUE TO TAKE OUR PRECAUTIONS
AND THIS PROCESS WILL CONTINUE
UNTIL TERRORISM ELEMENTS LAY
DOWN THEIR ARMS AND UNTIL THEY
GET OUT OF TURKEY AND UNTIL
PUBLIC ORDER IS ABSOLUTELY
RESTORED.
>> Woodruff: ALSO TODAY,
TURKEY'S CABINET OFFICIALLY
APPROVED AN AGREEMENT TO ALLOW
THE U.S.-LED COALITION TO USE
ITS INCIRLIK AIR BASE TO LAUNCH
STRIKES ON THE ISLAMIC STATE.
>> Ifill: IN WASHINGTON, THE
MILITARY'S TOP BRASS JOINED THE
SECRETARY OF STATE ON CAPITOL
HILL TO DEFEND THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S NUCLEAR DEAL
WITH IRAN.
SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN-- REPUBLICAN JOHN
McCAIN-- INSISTED HE CAN'T MAKE
AN INFORMED DECISION WITHOUT ALL
THE FACTS, AND THAT INCLUDES
DOCUMENT
INSPECTORS.
>> WE AGREE, ALL OF US I
BELIEVE, THAT WE SHOULD SEE
THOSE INSTRUMENTS OF
VERIFICATION, OTHERWISE HOW CAN
WE MAKE A JUDGMENT AS TO THIS
AGREEMENT CAN BE ENFORCED AND
VERIFIED WITH A COUNTRY THAT HAS
A LONG RECORD OF CHEATING?
>> Ifill: THE NUCLEAR DEAL'S
LEAD NEGOTIATOR-- SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY-- AGAIN PLAYED
DOWN ANY TALK OF SECRET
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN IRAN AND THE
INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY.
>> WE HAVE RELIED ON THE
I.A.E.A. FOR YEARS AND YEARS AND
HISTORICALLY THE I.A.E.A. ALWAYS
CREATES WHAT'S CALLED A
COMPREHENSIVE SAFEGUARDS
AGREEMENT-- A C.S.A.-- WHICH
THEY NEGOTIATE WITH THE COUNTRY.
WE DON'T GET THAT EXACT, IT'S
NOT SHARED WITH THE WORLD.
THEIR REASONS THAT IT'S
CONFIDENTIAL HAVE TO DO WITH
WHAT YOU CAN GET OUT OF THAT
COUNTRY BUT WE DO GET BRIEFED ON
IT.
>> Ifill: AFTER A 60-DAY REVIEW
PERIOD, THE HOUSE AND SENATE
WILL VOTE ON THE IRAN NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT IN SEPTEMBER.
>> Woodruff: THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES LATE TODAY
APPROVED A THREE-MONTH FUNDING
EXTENSION OF THE FEDERAL HIGHWAY
TRUST FUND.
THE FUND-- WHICH FUNNELS FEDERAL
MONEY TOWARDS BRIDGE, ROAD AND
TRANSIT PROJECTS-- IS DUE TO RUN
OUT OF MONEY AT MIDNIGHT ON
FRIDAY.
THE SENATE PLANS ON TAKING UP
THE $8 BILLION BILL LATER THIS
WEEK.
>> Ifill: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN
CHAKA FATTAH WAS INDICTED TODAY
ON FEDERAL RACKETEERING AND
BRIBERY CHARGES.
THE LONGTIME PHILADELPHIA
CONGRESSMAN ALLEGEDLY PAID OFF A
CAMPAIGN LOAN WITH CHARITABLE
DONATIONS AND USED CAMPAIGN
MONEY TO PAY DOWN HIS SON'S
STUDENT LOAN DEBT.
CHARGES RANGED FROM BRIBERY, TO
BANK AND MAIL FRAUD, TO MONEY
LAUNDERING.
IN A STATEMENT, FATTAH SAID HE'S
NEVER PARTICIPATED IN ANY
ILLEGAL ACTIVITY OR MISUSED
TAXPAYER DOLLARS.
>> Woodruff: THE FEDERAL RESERVE
BOARD OPTED TODAY TO KEEP
INTEREST RATES UNCHANGED, FOR
NOW.
IN ITS LATEST STATEMENT, THE
CENTRAL BANK SAID IT'S STILL
WAITING TO SEE FURTHER ECONOMIC
RECOVERY AND HIGHER INFLATION
BEFORE IT WILL RAISE THEM.
TODAY'S FED STATEMENT CAUSED
STOCKS TO CLOSE HIGHER ON WALL
STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 121 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,751.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 22 POINTS AND
THE S&P 500 ADDED 15.
>> Ifill: OUTRAGE GREW AROUND
THE WORLD TODAY OVER THE DEATH
OF A FAMOUS LION IN AFRICA.
MINNESOTA DENTIST WALTER J.
PALMER PAID ZIMBABWE HUNTER THEO
BRONKORST TO GO ON THE TROPHY
HUNTING TRIP THAT ULTIMATELY LED
TO THE LION'S KILLING.
BRONKHORST LEFT A COURTROOM IN
ZIMBABWE WITH HIS LAWYER TODAY,
CHARGED WITH FAILING TO PREVENT
AN AMERICAN FROM UNLAWFULLY
KILLING CECIL, THE COUNTRY'S
MOST WELL-KNOWN LION.
>> HOW DO YOU FEEL?
>> TERRIBLE.
>> Ifill: EARLIER THIS MONTH,
THE BELOVED CECIL WAS ALLEGEDLY
LURED OUT OF HIS SANCTUARY AT A
NATIONAL PARK INTO UNPROTECTED
TERRITORY WHERE HE WAS SHOT WITH
A BOW AND ARROW.
THE MAN BEHIND THE BOW AND ARROW
WAS AMERICAN WALTER J. PALMER--
WHO HAS KILLED WILD ANIMALS
BEFORE-- LIKE THIS LION IN 2008.
HE ADMITS HE KILLED CECIL, BUT
SAID HE THOUGHT THE HUNT WAS
LEGAL.
CECIL, ONE OF THE PARK'S OLDEST
LIONS, DIDN'T DIE RIGHT AWAY,
BUT HAD TO BE SHOT DAYS LATER,
WHEN HE WAS ALSO BEHEADED.
>> IF WE HAD NOT BEEN HAVING
STRONG CONSERVATION EFFORTS IN
TERMS OF PROTECTING THE ANIMALS
FROM POACHERS, IT WOULDN'T HAVE
GONE TO THAT AGE OF 13 YEARS.
>> Ifill: AMID A SOCIAL MEDIA
BACKLASH, PALMER IS NOW BEING
SOUGHT ON POACHING CHARGES, AND
THE PUBLIC HAS TURNED HIS DENTAL
PRACTICE IN MINNESOTA INTO A
MAKESHIFT MEMORIAL TO THE DEAD
LION.
FOR NOW, THE OFFICE REMAINS CLOS
THE U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE
SERVICE PLEDGED TODAY TO ASSIST
OFFICIALS IN ZIMBABWE "IN
WHATEVER MANNER IS REQUESTED".
>> Woodruff: NEW ENGLAND
PATRIOTS QUARTERBACK TOM BRADY
VOWED TO FIGHT HIS FOUR-GAME
SUSPENSION BY THE N.F.L. FOR HIS
INVOLVEMENT IN DEFLATING
FOOTBALLS DURING LAST YEAR'S
PLAYOFF RUN.
IN A STATEMENT, BRADY ALSO
DENIED ALLEGATIONS MADE BY THE
N.F.L. THAT HE DESTROYED HIS
CELL PHONE TO HIDE INFORMATION.
THE N.F.L. PLAYERS ASSOCIATION
FILED A MOTION IN FEDERAL COURT
IN MINNESOTA TODAY CHALLENGING
THE LEAGUE'S DECISION TO UPHOLD
BRADY'S SUSPENSION.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR: WHAT THE DEATH OF A
TALIBAN LEADER MEANS FOR PEACE
IN AFGHANISTAN, THE SUPREME
ALLIED COMMANDER OF NATO ON THE
GROWING RUSSIAN THREAT AND MUCH
MORE.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO THE FUTURE
OF AFGHANISTAN AFTER A LONGTIME
ENEMY OF THE UNITED STATES IS
REPORTEDLY DEAD.
EARLIER TODAY, A SPOKESMAN FOR
AFGHANISTAN'S INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY CONFIRMED THE DEATH OF
TALIBAN SUPREME LEADER MULLAH
MOHAMMAD OMAR.
ACCORDING TO THE AGENCY, THE
RECLUSIVE FIGURE DIED TWO YEARS
AGO AT A HOSPITAL IN PAKISTAN.
SO FAR, THE TALIBAN HAS NOT
PUBLICLY COMMENTED ON THE CLAIM.
BUT AS RECENTLY AS TWO WEEKS
AGO, THE GROUP WAS ISSUINGAHE HY
SINCE 2001.
JESSICA DONATI IS COVERING THE
STORY FOR THE REUTERS NEWS
AGENCY IN KABUL.
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
JESSICA DONATI, WELCOME.
SO TELL US MORE ABOUT WHAT
THESE REPORTS SAY AND HOW
SOLID ARE THEY.
>> WELL, WE'RE NOT GETTING
ALOT OUT OF THE REPORTS
OTHER THAN THAT THE AFGHAN
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY HAS SAID
THAT THEY CONFIRMED THAT
MULLAH OMAR IS DEAD AND WE
HAVE THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT
SAYING THAT THEY HAVE REASON
TO BELIEVE THAT THE REPORTS
ARE CREDIBLE.
BUT FROM THE TALIBAN SIDE WE
DON'T HAVE ANYTHING.
>> Woodruff: AND IN TERMS OF
HE DIED TWO YEARS AGO IN A
HOSPITAL IN PAKISTAN, ANY
MORE INFORMATION THAN THAT
ABOUT WHY HE DIED, HOW HE
DIED?
>> THERE ISN'T A LOT OF
DETAILS.
WE'VE BEEN SPEAKING TO SOME
COMMANDERS WHO SUGGEST THAT
HE MIGHT HAVE DIED OF
TUBERCULOSIS.
THERE ARE DIFFERENT RUMORS
ABOUT DIFFERENT ILLNESSES
THAT HE MAY HAVE HAD.
AND IT'S NOT CLEAR WHERE HE
DIED OR WHAT HE DIED OF.
I THINK THE QUESTION REALLY
IS WHY IS IT COMING OUT NOW
ABOUT TWO DAYS BEFORE THERE
WAS SUPPOSED TO BE ANOTHER
ROUND OF PEACE TALKS
SCHEDULED TO TAKE PLACE
SOMEWHERE ON FRIDAY.
SO THE QUESTION IS WHY ARE
THE REPORTS NOW, BECAUSE
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THEY
WOULD-- MAKE THE TALIBAN
APPEAR MORE WEAK.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF
QUESTIONS BEING ASKED AS TO
WHO IS BEHIND THESE REPORTS.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE A
THEORY ABOUT WHO IS BEHIND
THEM.
AND YOU'RE SAYING THE
TALIBAN WOULD BE WEAKENED
BECAUSE THEIR LEADER WOULD
BE GONE.
>> YES, AND THAT WOULD
SUGGEST THAT THERE IS MORE
OF A SPLIT THAT WOULD PUT
THEM IN A MORE DIFFICULT
POSITION IF THEY WERE GOING
TO BE BARGAINING WITH THE
AFGHAN GOVERNMENT.
ON THE ONE SIDE THERE SEEMS
TO BE A GROUP OF COMMANDER
WAS ARE IN FAVOR OF GOING
AHEAD WITH THE PEACE TALKS
AND ON THE OTHER SIDE THE
COMMANDERS ARE SAYING WELL,
LOOK, THE ENFORCERS HAVE
LESS AN WE'RE MAKING
PROGRESS.
IT IS NOT A GOOD TIME FOR US
TO BE NEGOTIATING.
SO IT IS NOT REALLY A GOOD
POSITION FOR THEM TO BE IN
WITHOUT LEADERSHIP.
AND THAT COULD BE WHY THEY
AREN'T COMMENTING EITHER WAY.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW STRONG
IS THE TALIBAN SEEN TO BE
RIGHT NOW IN AFGHANISTAN?
>> AT THE MOMENT THEY HAVE,
THEY'RE COMING OUT STRONGER
THIS YEAR THAN LAST YEAR.
FIRST OF ALL, THE AFGHAN
SECURITY FORCES ARE ON THEIR
OWN.
MOST FOR ENFORCES HAVE LEFT
AND THERE IS ONLY A LIMITED
AMOUNT OF AIR SPORT ALONG
WITH THE TRAINING MISSIONS.
SO THE CASUALTY RATES ARE
HIGHER.
THEY HAVE TAKEN OVER TONS OF
VILLAGES IN THE NORTH.
THEY'VE CAPTURED A COUPLE OF
CENTERS WHICH ARE QUITE
SYMBOLIC.
THEY THREATENED A MAJOR CITY
IN THE NORTH ALTHOUGH THEY
HAVEN'T REALLY COME CLOSE TO
CAPTURING IT.
SO THEY ARE MAKING PROGRESS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THEY ALSO
HAVE TO FACE THE FACT THAT
THERE IS AN ISLAMIC STATE
THREAT THAT IS RISING AND
GETTING THE ATTENTION
COMPETING FOR YOUNG FIGHTERS
SORK THIS MIGHT NOT BE SUCH
A BAD TIME FOR THEM TO
NEGOTIATE.
>> Woodruff: AND HOW FAR
ALONG WITH ARE THE TALKS
BETWEEN THE TALIBAN AND THE
AFGHANISTAN GOVERNMENT SEEM
TO BE?
>> AT THE MOMENT, WE AREN'T
EVEN ENTIRELY CLEAR HOW
OFFICIAL THESE TALKS ARE.
THERE WERE TALKS TAKING
PLACE IN EARLY JULY BETWEEN
THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT, THE
PAKISTANI GOVERNMENT.
THERE WERE AMERICAN AND
CHINESE OFFICIALS, AND
SEVERAL TALIBAN.
BUT IT IS NOT CLEAR WHO
THESE TALIBAN LEADERS WERE
REPRESENTING AND WHETHER
THEY HAD AUTHORITY FROM THE
LEADERSHIP.
SO WE HAVE STATEMENTS FROM
THE AFGHAN AND THE PAKISTANI
SIDE SAYING THAT THESE WERE
THE FIRST ROUND OF OFFICIAL
PEACE TALKS AND THAT THE
NEXT TIME THEY WOULD BE
TALKING ABOUT AN AGENDA AND
POSSIBLE CEASE-FIRE.
BUT THE TALIBAN NEVER SAID
ANYTHING ABOUT WHETHER THESE
TALKS WERE OFFICIAL OR NOT.
SO YOU COULD SAY THAT
THEY'RE NOT VERY FAR AHEAD
AT ALL.
>> Woodruff: WELL, ONE MORE
TWIST IN I GUESS AN ENDLESS
SET OF TWISTS AND TURNS,
JESSICA DONATI IN KABUL,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE ROLE OF THE U.S.
MILITARY IN EUROPE HAS SHIFTED
SINCE THE START OF THE UKRAINE
CONFLICT.
ALONG WITH OTHER NATO COUNTRIES,
AMERICAN FORCES NOW HAVE A
SIZEABLE PRESENCE IN THE REGION.
LEADING THE EFFORT A FEW HOURS
BEFORE RUSSIA AND THE U.S. WERE
AGAIN ON OPPOSITE SIDES AT THE
UNITED NATIONS.
JUST OVER A YEAR AGO, MALAYSIAN
AIRLINES FLIGHT M.H.-17 CRASHED
IN A FIELD IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
ALL 298 PEOPLE ON BOARD-- MOST
OF THEM DUTCH-- WERE KILLED.
THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV AND IN
MANY OTHER WESTERN COUNTRIES
SAID RUSSIAN-BACKED PARASETISTS
SHOT DOWN THE PLANE WITH A
SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE.
DENIES.
NOW, MALAYSIA-- ALONG WITH THE
NETHERLANDS, UKRAINE AND OTHERS-
- WANT TO SET UP AN
INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL
TO PROSECUTE THOSE RESPONSIBLE.
>> AN INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNAL
WILL ALSO BE BEST PLACE TO
DELIVER JUSTICE TO THE FAMILIES
OF ALL VICTIMS.
>> Ifill: THE U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL TOOK UP THE PROPOSAL
THIS AFTERNOON, BUT RUSSIA
VETOED IT.
>> THE GROUNDSES TO BE
ASSURED OF THE
IMPARTIALALITY OF THE
NEGOTIATION, CAN IT RESIST
THE PROPAGANDA BACKDROP IN
THE MEDIA.
>> Ifill: THAT CAME HOURS AFTER
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
TOLD THE DUTCH PRIME MINISTER IN
A PHONE CALL THAT SUCH A MOVE
WAS "INEXPEDIENT."
ALL THIS COMES AFTER 15 MONTHS
OF HEAVY FIGHTING IN EASTERN
UKRAINE-- KNOWN AS THE DONBAS--
BETWEEN SEPARATISTS BACKED BY
RUSSIA AND THE UKRAINIAN
MILITARY, MORE AN 6TH,500 PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN KILLED.
THE FIGHTING THERE FOLLOWED
RUSSIA'S MARCH 2014 ANNEXATION
OF THE UKRAINIAN PENINSULA OF
CRIMEA.
BUT EVEN BEYOND THAT CONFLICT,
THERE'S BEEN A SPIKE THIS YEAR
IN RUSSIAN AIR INCURSIONS NEAR
NATO COUNTRIES, INCLUDING THE
U.S.
LAST MONTH, AMERICAN FIGHTER
JETS INTERCEPTED RUSSIAN T.U.-95
BOMBERS OFF THE COASTS OF ALASKA
AND CALIFORNIA.
IN RESPONSE TO RUSSIA'S ACTIONS,
NATO COUNTRIES HAVE STEPPED
UP MILITARY EXERCISES IN UKRAINE
AND ACROSS THE BALTIC STATES.
IN A VISIT TO ESTONIA LAST FALL,
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE THE U.S.
COMMITMENT CLEAR.
>> AN ATTACK ON ONE IS AN ATTACK
ON ALL.
SO IF, IN SUCH A MOMENT, YOU
EVER ASK AGAIN, "WHO WILL COME
TO HELP," YOU'LL KNOW THE
ANSWER-- THE NATO ALLIANCE,
INCLUDING THE ARMED FORCES OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
RIGHT HERE, PRESENT, NOW.
>> Ifill: THE U.S. HAS BEEN
TRAINING UKRAINIAN FORCES.
SO FAR, IT'S LIMITED TO
INSTRUCTING NATIONAL GUARD
UNITS, BUT THE STATE DEPARTMENT
SAID LAST WEEK THAT THE MISSION
WILL BE EXPANDED TO INCLUDE
REGULAR MILITARY FORCES LATER
THIS YEAR.
THE MAN OVERSEEING U.S.
OPERATIONS IN EUROPE AND SERVING
AS NATO SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER
IS GENERAL PHILIP BREEDLOVE.
HE VISITED UKRAINE LAST WEEK.
AND I SPOKE WITH HIM TODAY AT
THE PENTAGON.
GENERAL BREEDLOVE, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: I WILL START BY
TALKING ABOUT TURKEY.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS IT THAT
TURKEY HAS ALLOWEDS TO START
USING-- FOR A BASING TO
ATTACK ISIS.
>> THERE ARE THINGS THAT WE
ARE WORKING AT NOW TO USE
BASES.
THOSE WILL BE VERY IMPORTANT
TO OUR ABILITY TO PROSECUTE
A JOINT CAMPAIGN WITH TURKEY
AS A PART OF OUR COALITION.
>> Ifill: HOW FAR DOES THAT
BUFFER ZONE GOND A HOW FAR
DO WE GO INTO IT?
>> WE'RE NOT CREATING ANY
SPECIFIC ZONE.
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS
BRINGING TURKEY INTO AN
ARRANGEMENT WHEREAS A PART
OF THE COALITION, THEY
COOPERATE IN OUR COUNTERISIL
CAMPAIGN IN THE NORTH.
AND THAT'S THE REAL KEY TO
THIS.
>> Ifill: SO IT'S NOT A
NO-FLY ZONE PER SE, IS WHAT
ARE YOU SAYING.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO TAKE YOU
TO UKRAINE.
ESPECIALLY RUSSIA'S ROLE.
THE NEW INCOMING NOMINEE FOR
JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF SAID
AT A CONGRESSIONAL HEARING
LAST WEEK THAT HE SAW RUSSIA
AS A CHIEF GLOBAL THREAT IS
THAT SOMETHING YOU AGREE
WITH?
>> I TESTIFIED TO THE SAME
THING IN THE PAST.
>> Ifill: WHY?
>> WELL, CLEARLY THERE ARE
LOTS OF THREATS OUT THERE,
FOR INSTANCE ISIL.
BUT I THINK WHAT YOU HEAR
FROM NUMEROUS LEADERS IS
THAT RUSSIA IS A DIFFERENT
CASE.
THIS IS A NATION THAT FOR 20
YEARS WE HAVE TRIED TO MAKE
A PARTNER.
AND IN THE LAST FEW YEARS,
WE'VE SEEN THAT THEY'RE ON A
DIFFERENT PATH SO NOW WE
HAVE A NATION THAT HAS USED
FORCE TO CHANGE
INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED
BOUNDARIES.
RUSSIA CONTINUES TO OCCUPY
CRIMEA.
RUSSIAN FORCES NOW ARE IN
THE EASTERN UKRAINE.
SO THIS NATION HAS USED
FORCE TO CHANGE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDRIES.
AND THIS IS A NATION THAT
POSSESSES A PRETTY VAST
NUCLEAR INVENTORY, AND TALKS
ABOUT THE USE OF THAT
INVENTORY VERY OPENLY IN THE
PAST.
AND SO WHAT I THINK YOU SEE
BEING REFLECTED IS THAT WE
SEE-- A-- RUSSIA THAT HAS
TAKEN A NEW PATH OVER WHAT
THE SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS IN
YOUR ARE LAKE AND HOW THEY
ARE EMPLOYED.
AND THEY TALK ABOUT USING AS
A MATTER OF COURSE NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
FOR THAT REASON, THESE
SENIOR LEADERS, I BELIEVE,
SEE THAT AS A MAJOR THREAT.
>> SECRETARY KERRY HAS NOT
SAID THAT I WONDER IF THE
DISTINCTION THERE IS THE
DIPLOMATIC APPROACH ON
DEALING WITH RUSSIA ON
THINGS LIKE IRAN AND THE
MILITARY CONCERNS.
>> SO RUSSIA CAN AND WE HOPE
IN THE FUTURE WILL BE A
GREAT PARTNER.
THERE ARE MANY PLACES WHERE
OUR NEEDS AND REQUIREMENTS
MATCH.
BUT AGAIN, IN EUROPE, THEY
HAVE ESTABLISHED A PATTERN
NOW, GEORGIA, CRIMEA, DOMBAS
WHERE FORCE IS A MATTER OF
COURSE.
AND THAT'S NOT WHAT WE LOOK
FOR IN PARTNERS IN EUROPE.
>> Ifill: SO NATO HAS TALKED
ABOUT PROVIDING TRAINING AND
ARTILLERY.
AND SOME SORT OF SUPPORT
AGAINST THIS FORCE YOU
DESCRIBED, THERE ON THE
BORDER.
IS THAT ENOUGH?
>> WELL, NATO NATIONS ARE
OFFERING SOME ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE AS THE UNITED
STATES.
MANY NATIONS NOW ARE COMING
ALONG TO BE A PART OF
HELPING UKRAINE TO DEFEND
THEMSELVES.
THEY HAVE THE RIGHT TO
DEFEND THEMSELVES.
>> BUT IS IT ENOUGH?
>> I THINK THAT QUESTION IS
YET TO BE DETERMINED.
WE BELIEVE THAT THERE IS A
DIPLOMATIC AND A POLITICAL
SOLUTION.
SO WHEN YOU ASK IS IT
ENOUGH?
THE QUESTION IS IT ENOUGH TO
SET THE CONDITIONS SO THAT
WE CAN GET TO A POLITICAL
AND DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE BAM
PARTICULARS THERE IS A LOT
OF NERVOUSNESS THAT RUSSIA
IS GOING TO EXPAND ITS VIEW
OF AGGRESSION IN THAT
DIRECTION AS WELL AND THEY
ARE ENTIRELY UNABLE TO
DEFEND THEMSELVES.
>> BOTH NATO AS AN ALLIANCE
AND THE UNITED STATES HAVE
COME TO GREAT MEASURES OF
ASSURANCE FOR OUR BALANCE
PARTICULAR NATIONS.
WE HAVE U.S. SOLDIERS
ALONGSIDE BRITISH AND OTHER
SOLDIERS INSIDE OF THESE
COUNTRIES NOW, EXERCISING,
DOING TRAINING, TO ASSURE
THOSE ALLIES THAT NATO IS
THERE AND WILL BE THERE.
I WAS PRIVILEGED TO SIT IN
THE ROOM AT WALES WHEN THE
LEADERS OF 28 NATIONS
INCLUDING OUR PRESIDENT,
WERE ROCK SOLID ON ARTICLE
FIVE, COLLECTIVE DEFENSE.
AND THAT INCLUDES THE
BALTICS.
AND I THINK THAT MR. PUTIN
UNDERSTANDS THAT NATO IS
DIFFERENT.
>> Ifill: THERE IS A LOT OF
NERVOUSNESS, HOWEVER, THAT
THIS OPTION DOES NOT TAKE
HOLD, IS WAR.
>> WELL, THE BEST WAY NOT TO
HAVE A WAR IS TO BE PREPARED
FOR WAR.
SO WE'RE IN THERE NOW,
TRAINING THEIR SOLDIERS.
AS YOU KNOW, WE ARE LOOKING
AT AND HAVE DECIDED TO
PREPOSITION STOPS FORWARD.
WE HAVE HEAVY EQUIPMENT THAT
WE TRAIN WITH IN THESE
NATIONS NOW.
AND SO WE NEED TO BE
PREPARED SO THAT WE CAN
AVOID.
>> Ifill: IS THERE A LINE
BETWEEN PREPARATION AND
PROVOCATION?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I BELIEVE THERE THERE IS.
WE DO DEFENSIVE MEASURES IN
I THINK VERY EASILY DEFINED
DEFENSIVE STANDSES IN OUR
FORWARD BASES.
WE'RE NOT PUTTING BIG FORCES
INTO THE BALTICS.
RIGHT NOW THERE IS A COMPANY
OF U.S. SOLDIERS IN EACH OF
THE THREE BALTIC STATES.
THAT IS WELL BELOW A
PROPORTIONAL ISSUE.
>> Ifill: IF IT IS POSSIBLE
FOR THERE TO BE A DIPLOMATIC
OR A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO
HEAD OFF ANY FUTURE CONFLICT,
WHAT WOULD THAT LOOK LIKE?
>> WE ALWAYS TALK ABOUT A
EUROPEAN LANDMASS-- TO GET
TO THAT WE NEED TO HAVE A
PARTNER IN RUSSIA, NOT
SOMEONE THAT WE ARE
COMPETING WITH.
THE RUSSIAN D-- .
>> Ifill: DO YOU SEE A
PARTNERSHIP THAT I DON'T
SEE?
>> NO, NO, I'M SAYING WE
HAVE TO HAVE ONE IN THE
FUTURE.
IF WE REALLY BELIEVE WE'RE
GOING TO GET PEACE AND
PROSPEROUS, THEN WE NEED A
PARTNER IN RUSSIA.
>> Ifill: WELL, GIVE ME AN
EXAMPLE OF ONE WAY TO GET
THERE, ESPECIALLY IF THE
PERSON WHO HAS TO BE THE
PARTNER IS VLADIMIR PUTIN.
WHO DOESN'T SHOW ANY
INDICATION OTHER THAN BEING
HELPFUL AT THE IRAN NUCLEAR
TOPS, OF BEING THE PARTNER
YOU ENVISION.
>> SO FIRST IT'S
COMMUNICATION.
WE NEED TO REESTABLISH THOSE
LINES OF COMMUNICATION.
YOU HAVE SEEN OUR SECRETARY
OF STATE, UNDERSECRETARY OF
STATE REACHING OUT IN
SEVERAL FORUMS, MEAL TO MEAL
COMMUNICATIONS NEED TO BE
ROUTINE AGAIN.
THEY ARE NOT ROUTINE NOW,
WHERE THEY WERE ONCE BEFORE.
COMMUNICATION FIRST.
>> Ifill: I GUESS I HEAR
WHAT YOU ARE SAYING YOU
ABOUT I DON'T SEE HOW YOU
GET THERE.
>> ITS'S NOT GOING TO BE AN
EASY ROAD.
AND IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
QUICKLY.
THIS BUSINESS WITH RUSSIA IS
A LONG-TERM THING.
I HAVE SAID IN TESTIMONY IN
OTHER PLACES THAT THIS IS
GLOBAL, NOT REGIONAL.
AND IT IS LONG-TERM, NOT
SHORT TERM.
BUT WE HAVE TO START DOWN
THE PATH.
>> Ifill: ASSUMING THERE IS
A DIPLOMATIC OR DIPLOMATIC
IMPASSE OR PRESIDENT TO
PRESIDENT IMPASSE, IS THERE
A MILITARY TO MILITARY WAY
OF FORGING THAT KIND OF
AGREEMENT?
>> THERE IS.
IT IS IMPORTANT ALSO THAT
EVEN IF OUR COUNTRIES ARE
NOT GETTING ALONG, WHEN YOU
ARE FLYING AIRPLANES IN
CLOSE VICINITY, CHEN YOU ARE
SAILING SHIPS IN CLOSE
ADVISE INITY, WHEN YOU HAVE
SOLDIERS ON THE GROUND
EXERCISING SOMETIMES JUST ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF BORDERS,
MILITARY MEN AND WOMEN HAVE
TO BE ABLE TO COMMUNICATE AT
A VERY MATTER OF FACT WAY TO
PRECLUDE ANYTHING UGLY FROM
HAPPENING.
>> Ifill: WE HOPE NOTHING
FURTHER UGLY HAPPENS.
NATO SUPREME ALLIED
COMMANDER DR. PHILIP
BREEDLOVE, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IMPROVING HEALTH OUTCOMES AND
ACCESS TO CARE AND A REUNION 70
YEARS AFTER WORLD WAR TWO
DIVIDED A FAMILY.
>> Ifill: BUT FIRST, A NEW
DISCOVERY AT THE HISTORIC
JAMESTOWN SETTLEMENT-- THE
REMAINS OF FOUR IMPORTANT
RESIDENTS AND A MYSTERIOUS
RELIGIOUS RELIC-- HAS ADDED NEW
INSIGHT AND QUESTIONS ABOUT LIFE
AT THE NATION'S FIRST PERMANENT
ENGLISH COLONY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: THE MEN WERE LEADERS
IN THE COLONY, AND AS SEEN IN
THIS 3-D ANIMATION OF THE
SETTLEMENT SITE, THEY WERE
BURIED IN A LONG-VANISHED
CHURCH, SOME 400 YEARS AGO.
INSIDE ONE OF THE COFFINS, THAT
OF CAPTAIN GABRIEL ARCHER, WAS A
SILVER BOX CONTAINING WHAT
APPEAR TO BE CATHOLIC RELICS--
A STRIKING FINDING IN THE
ANGLICAN SETTLEMENT.
DIGGING HAS GONE ON AT JAMESTOWN
SINCE 1994.
THESE REMAINS WERE UNCOVERED BY
ARCHAEOLOGISTS IN 2013, AND JUST
MADE PUBLIC AFTER TWO YEARS OF
RESEARCH BY THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION AND THE JAMESTOWN
RE-DISCOVERY FOUNDATION.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE LATTER
GROUP AND HIMSELF AN HISTORIAN,
JAMES HORN, JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
PLEASURE TO BE HERE.
>> Brown: SET THE SCENE FOR
US BRIEFLY.
THIS IS THE FIRST COLONY,
DIRE STRAITS, ALMOST COMING
TO AN END VERY QUICKLY,
RIGHT?
>> YES, THAT'S RIGHT.
IT'S THE FIRST ENGLISH
COLONY, FIRST PARLIAMENT
ENGLISH COLONY IN AMERICA.
THE FIRST BEACHHEAD OR WHAT
WAS TO BE A GREAT ENGLISH
EMPIRE IN THE NEW WORLD.
AND THE FIRST TWO, THREE
YEARS ARE SOME OF THE MOST
CHALLENGING THE COLONY EVER
ENDURES.
A COMBINATION OF STARVATION
FOOD SHORTAGES, INDIANA TACK
AND DISEASE, REALLY
DECIMATES THE NUMBER OF
SETTLERS.
>> Brown: SO THE DISCOVERY
OF THESE FOUR MEN, HOW DID
IT COME ABOUT?
DID YOU KNOW YOU WERE
LOOKING FOR THEM IN
PARTICULAR?
>> WE DIDN'T.
WHAT WE WERE LOOKING FOR,
WHAT WE HOPE TO FIND WAS THE
ORIGINAL CHURCH.
THE 1608 CHURCH WHICH IS THE
FIRST ENGLISH CHURCH IN
AMERICA.
SO WE WEREN'T LOOKING FOR
THAT.
>> Brown: AND SO CAPTAIN
GABRIEL ARCHER, ROBERT
REVEREND HUNT, SIR FERNANDO
WANTMAN AND CAPTAIN WEST.
WHAT DO WE KNOW AND WHY IS
IT IMPORTANT TO FIND THEIR
REMAINS?
>> WE KNOW A GOOD DEAL ABOUT
TWO OF THEM.
AND IF WE START WITH THE
REVEREND ROBERT HUMPS, FIRST
ANGLICAN MINISTER AT
JONESTOWN, HE'S RESPONSIBLE
FOR MINISTERING SERVICES,
CHURCH OF ENGLAND SERVICES
TO THE SETTLERS.
BUT ALSO TO BEGIN THE LONG
PROCESS OF PREACHING TO
LOCAL INDIAN PEOPLES.
WE KNOW LITTLE ABOUT BIT
ABOUT HIS BACKGROUND, WHERE
HE WAS FROM.
BUT HE PLAYS A VERY
IMPORTANT ROLE IN FOUNDING
THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND IN
JAMESTOWN.
>> Brown: YOU'RE CONFIDENT
ABOUT THE IDENTITY BECAUSE
OF A LOT OF FORENSIC
RESEARCH, RIGHT?
THIS IS HIGH-TECH STUFF THAT
YOU ARE APPLYING.
>> HIGH-TECH STUFF AND
LOW-TECH STUFF.
A COMBINATION OF DIFFERENT
METHODS INCLUDING THE
ARCHAEOLOGY OF THE FORENSICS,
DOCUMENTARY, GENEALOGY AND
EVEN HIGH-TECH INVOLVING
SOME HIGH-TECH PROCESSES.
>> Brown: NOW THE SMALL BOX
FOUND IN THE COFFIN OF
CAPTAIN ARCHER, WITH ITEMS
IDENTIFIED AS CATHOLIC
RELICS, THIS WAS A SURPRISE?
HOW MUCH DO WE KNOW, WHAT DO
WE NOT KNOW AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, IT CERTAINLY WAS A
SURPRISE.
FOR TWO REASONS.
OBJECTS FOUND IN GRAVES ARE
RARE IN THE ENGLISH CONTEXT
AT LEAST.
SO WE WERE SURPRISED TO FIND
ANY ACT FARLT-- ARTIFACT.
BUT THIS ART FACT IS A REAL
ENIC MA BECAUSE IT
WASN'T-- ENIGMA BECAUSE IT
WASN'T CLEAR TO US WHO
PLACED IT THERE, WHAT IT IS
DOING THERE, IS IT A
CATHOLIC RELIQUIY, ONE
REPURSED FOR ANGLICAN USES,
RETRANSLATED FOR THE NEW
CHURCH IN THE NEW WORLD.
WE'VE GOT A LOT OF QUESTIONS
TO ANSWER AND WHAT WE WILL
BE WORKING ON THIS FOR SOME
TIME TO COME.
>> Brown: BUT IT COMPLICATES
THIS EARLY HISTORY OF
RELIGION IN THE NEW WORLD,
RIGHT?
ALTHOUGH IT GOES BACK TO
FROM TUTOR HISTORY, I KNOW
THAT THE FIGHT IS STILL
GOING ON OVER THE TIME IN
ENGLAND OVER CATHOLICISM
HIDDEN, RIGHT, VERSUS THE
NEW CHURCH.
>> YEAH, AND IN EUROPE, OF
COURSE.
SO EUROPE IS VERY SPLIT IN
TWO.
THE GREAT CONTEST BETWEEN
PROTESTANTISM AND
CATHOLICISM.
AND THAT STRUGGLE SHIFTS TO
A NEW WORLD THEATER.
AND VIRGINIA GETS CAUGHT UP
IN THAT EARLY.
JAMESTOWN IS PART OF THAT.
AND SO WHAT WE HAVE NOW IS
THE POSSIBILITY OF PERHAPS
AN ORGANIZED CATHOLIC CELL
IN PLACE.
IN JAMESTOWN, AT JAMESTOWN
IN THE FIRST YEARS.
AND THAT WAS, I DON'T THINK
WE ANTICIPATED FINDING THAT.
>> SO BRIEFLY WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT, WHERE DO YOU GO FROM
HERE?
>> MORE FORENSICS BECAUSE WE
CANNOT BE 100 PERCENT
CERTAIN OF THE
IDENTIFICATION AT THIS
STAGE.
WE HAVE NOT DONE DNA.
AND SO WE ARE CONFIDENT IN
OUR ANALYSIS SO FAR.
BUT WE WANT TO FOLLOWUP WITH
DNA.
AND WE'RE DOING THAT RIGHT
NOW.
AND THEN MUCH MORE RESEARCH
ON THE ENGLISH BACKGROUNDS
OF THESE FOUR MEN AND
PARTICULARLY ARCHER.
HE IS THE REAL MYSTERY IN
THIS.
>> ALL RIGHT, JAMES HORN,
JAMESTOWN, NEW DISCOVERY
FOUNDATION, THANKS SOME OF.
>> PLEASURE
>> Woodruff: HEALTH SPENDING IN
THE U.S. GREW BY 5.5% LAST YEAR
TO MORE THAN THREE TRILLION
DOLLARS.
AND NEW PROJECTIONS SHOW
SPENDING WILL KEEP RISING BY
NEARLY 6% A YEAR OVER THE NEXT
DECADE.
THIS COMES AFTER SEVERAL YEARS
OF A SLOWDOWN IN SPENDING
GROWTH.
AND IT POTENTIALLY HAS MAJOR
IMPLICATIONS FOR MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID, WHICH TOGETHER COVER
ABOUT ONE OF EVERY THREE
AMERICANS.
BY 2024, NEARLY FOUR OUT OF
EVERY TEN HEALTH CARE DOLLARS
WILL BE SPENT ON ENROLLEES IN
THE TWO PROGRAMS.
THE LATEST WARNINGS COMES AS
BOTH PROGRAMS ARE CELEBRATING
THEIR 50TH ANNIVERSARY.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE PRESIDENT
LYNDON JOHNSON SIGNED MEDICARE
AND MEDICAID INTO LAW IN 1965--
WITH PRESIDENT HARRY TRUMAN BY
HIS SIDE-- THE COUNTRY'S SOCIAL
SAFETY NET LEFT MANY SENIORS
LIVING IN POVERTY IN THEIR
RETIREMENT YEARS.
>> THERE ARE THOSE FEARING THE
>> THERE ARE THOSE ALONE IN
SUFFERING WHO WILL NOW HEAR THE
SOUNDS OF SOME APPROACHING
FOOTSTEPS COMING TO HELP.
>> Woodruff: 50 YEARS LATER, THE
PROGRAMS COVER TENS OF MILLIONS
MORE PEOPLE AND ARE DEEPLY WOVEN
INTO THE FABRIC OF THE AMERICAN
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.
NEARLY ONE IN SIX AMERICANS-- OR
ABOUT 53 MILLION PEOPLE--
RECEIVE COVERAGE THROUGH
MEDICARE.
MEDICAID, WHICH PROVIDES CARE
FOR LOW-INCOME AND DISABLED
PEOPLE, HAS GROWN EVEN LARGER:
IT COVERS NEARLY ONE IN FOUR
AMERICANS, 71 MILLION IN ALL.
THE SUCCESS OF BOTH PROGRAMS WAS
HAILED BY PRESIDENT OBAMA AT A
RECENT WHITE HOUSE EVENT.
>> WHEN MEDICARE WAS CREATED,
ONLY A LITTLE MORE THAN HALF OF
ALL SENIORS HAD SOME FORM OF
INSURANCE.
BEFORE MEDICAID CAME ALONG,
FAMILIES OFTEN HAD NO HELP
PAYING FOR NURSING HOME COSTS.
TODAY, THE NUMBER OF SENIORS IN
POVERTY HAS FALLEN DRAMATICALLY.
>> Woodruff: BUT NEW PROJECTIONS
UNDERSCORE WORRIES OVER LONG-
RANGE SOLVENCY.
AMONG THEM, 10,000 PEOPLE BECOME
ELIGIBLE FOR MEDICARE EACH DAY.
MEDICARE'S GROWTH RATE IS BELOW
THAT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR, BUT
THE HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST
FUND WILL RUN OUT OF MONEY BY
2030, AND ONLY BE ABLE TO COVER
86% OF COSTS, UNLESS THERE ARE
MORE CHANGES SUCH AS HIGHER
COSTS FOR BENEFICIARIES, RAISING
TAXES OR CUTTING BENEFITS.
CHOICE OF DOCTORS AND PROVIDERS
HAS SHRUNK IN RECENT YEARS AS
PAYMENT RATES DECLINE.
BENEFICIARIES' OUT OF POCKET
ST
PEOPLE ENROLLED IN MEDICAID HAVE
A HARDER TIME FINDING
SPECIALISTS AND DENTISTS WILLING
TO TREAT THEM.
NEARLY A THIRD OF BENEFICIARIES
REDUCED THEIR USE OF DENTAL,
VISION AND HEARING CARE.
MEDICAID, WHICH HAS EXPANDED
THROUGH THE FEDERAL HEALTH CARE
LAW, REMAINS THE FOCUS OF MAJOR
POLITICAL BATTLES AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
I SAT DOWN RECENTLY WITH TWO
FORMER SECRETARIES OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, WHO OVERSAW THE
PROGRAMS: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS WHO
SERVED UNDER PRESIDENT OBAMA
UNTIL LAST YEAR.
AND DR. LOUIS SULLIVAN WHO
SERVED UNDER PRESIDENT GEORGE H.
W. BUSH.
WELCOME, SECRETARY SULLIVAN,
SECRETARY SEBELIUS, AND
SECRETARY SEBELIUS, LET ME
START WITH YOU.
WHAT DIFFERENCE HAVE
MEDICARE AND MEDICAID MADE
IN THIS
>> WELL, I THINK THOSE MADE
AN INCREDIBLE DIFFERENCE IN
THE LIVES OF ABOUT 120
MILLION AMERICANS AND
COULDN'TING.
SO SENIORS WERE THE POOREST
GROUP OF AMERICANS WHEN
MEDICARE WAS PASSED 50 YEARS
AGO.
THEY WERE GOING BANKRUPT
BECAUSE OF MEDICAL BILLS,
THEY COULDN'T AFFORD THE
CARE THEY NEEDED.
AND TO HAVE THAT GUARANTEE
ONCE YOU TURN 65 OR SO
DISABLED THAT YOU QUALIFY
EARLY THAT YOU HAVE A SET OF
BENEFITS.
AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE
QUALIFIED BY HEALTH, YOU
QUALIFIED BY AGE, HAS MADE A
HUGE DIFFERENCE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: AND SECRETARY
SULLIVAN, WHAT ABOUT
MEDICAID?
>> MEDICAID HAS ALSO
CONTRIBUTED GREATLY TO
IMPROVING THE HEALTH AND
ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE FOR
OUR CITIZENS.
FOR EXAMPLE, 50% OF THE
BIRTHS IN THE COUNTRY ARE
PAID FOR BY MEDICAID.
MOST OF THE CARE FOR
HIV/AIDS PATIENTS, POOR
PATIENTS AND FAMILIES.
SO THIS IS REALLY THE SAFETY
NET FOR THE HEALTH SYSTEM.
SO I THINK MEDICAID ALONG
WITH MEDICARE ARE TWO
SUCCESSES THAT WE CAN ALL
CONGRATULATE.
>> Woodruff: AT THE SAME
TIME WE KNOW THAT SO MANY
MORE PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY
DEPEND ON THESE PROGRAMS
THAN WAS EVER ENVISIONED.
THE COSTS HAVE SKYROCKETED
TO THE GOVERNMENT AT THE
FEDERAL LEVEL AND IN THE
CASE OF MEDICAID ALSO AT THE
STATE LEVEL.
SECRETARY SEBELIUS, HOW
SUSTAINABLE ARE THESE TWO
PROGRAMS?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THE
COST ISSUE IS SOMETHING THAT
THIS ADMINISTRATION
PARTICULARLY HAS TAKEN HEAD
ON.
AND PART OF THE FRAMEWORK
AROUND THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT WAS REALLY TO LOOK AT
GOVERNMENT SPEND ON HEALTH
AND WHETHER WE'RE GETTING
THE BEST BANG FOR T
THE GOOD NEWS IS IN THE FIVE
YEAR SINCE THE PRESIDENT
SIGNED THE ACA INTO LAW,
HEALTH COSTS HAVE RISEN AT
THE LOWEST LEVEL IN 50
YEARS.
AND IN FACT, MEDICARE WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE INSOLVENT BY
2017 WHEN I CAME IN WITH THE
PRESIDENT, THAT IS WHAT THE
TRUSTEE REPORT SAID.
IT'S NOW 2030.
AN EACH YEAR, YEARS ARE
ADDED ON TO THAT SOLVENCY
BECAUSE COSTS ARE GOING DOWN,
IN SPITE OF THE FACT THAT WE
HAVE 11,000 PEOPLE A DAY
TURNING 65 IN THIS COUNTRY.
WE HAVE A BABY BOOM INCREASE
IN MEDICARE BUT THE COSTS
ARE LOWERNBEEN.
>> Woodruff: AT THE SAME
TIME, SECRETARY SULLIVAN,
THERE IS STILL CONCERN ABOUT
THE LONG-TERM FINANCIAL
VIABILITY OF THESE PROGRAMS,
ISN'T THERE?
>> OH, YES.
AND THAT'S A FAIR QUESTION.
I THINK ALL OF US WANT TO BE
SURE THAT WE DO A BETTER JOB
IN HOLDING BACK THE
INCREASES AND HEALTH-CARE
COSTS.
BUT ONE OF THE FEATURES IN
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT THAT
I'M VERY PLEASED WITH IS A
GREATER EMPHASIS ON
PREVENTION.
I BELIEVE THAT THE 21st
CENTURY REALLY WILL BE THE
CENTURY IN WHICH WE IMPROVE
HEALTH LITERACY OF OUR
CITIZENS AND HAVE THEM PLAY
A MORE ACTIVE PART IN
REMAINING HEALTHY, STAYING
OUT OF THE HOSPITAL,
COORDINATING CARE BETTER
THAN WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO DO
IT IN THE PAST.
SO THERE A NUMBER OF THINGS
THAT CAN BE DONE TO HELP
AMELIORATE THE INCREASE IN
COSTS WHILE SEEING THAT OUR
PATIENTS AND CITIZENS GET
ACCESS TO CARE.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES THAT
HAPPEN, SECRETARY SEBELIUS
IN THE LONG RUN.
WE ALREADY KNOW MANY DOCTORS
ARE SAYING THEY WON'T ACCEPT
PATIENTS WOULD COME TO THEM
SAYING THEY DEPEND ON
MEDICAID.
AND IN SOME CASES MEDICARE
PHYSICIANS ARE SAYING THEY
WON'T SEE THEM.
>> IT IS STILL ABOUT 70% OF
THE DOCK TORES.
LESS THAN A HUNDRED BUT 70%
TAKE MEDICAID PATIENTS.
AND ALMOST 95% OF DOCTORS
ACCEPT MEDICARE PATIENTS.
SO WE STILL HAVE THE VAST
MAJORITY OF THE PROVIDERS.
BUT I THINK AGAIN, IT'S
REASONABLE TO LOOK AT WHAT
THEIR PAYMENT IS.
ARE THEY BEING
COMPENSATEDDED ENOUGH.
AND AS DR. SULLIVAN SAID,
WHAT WE DON'T DO VERY WELL
IS PAY DOCTORING FOR KEEPING
THEIR PATIENTS HEALTHY IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
THAT PAYMENT SYSTEM IS
CHANGING RAPIDLY WITHIN THE
GOVERNMENT PAYING FOR
OUTCOMES, PAYING FOR HEALTH,
PAYING FOR PEOPLE TO
ACTUALLY HAVE LESS CONTACT
WITH THE HOSPITAL SYSTEM, IS
A NEW WAY OF ACTUALLY USING
THE TRILLION DOLLARS THAT
THE GOVERNMENT SPENDS EVERY
YEAR TO TRY AND DRIVE
HEALTHnd WELLNESS AND NOT
WAIT UNTIL SOMEBODY COMES
INTO THE ACUTE CARE SYSTEM,
GOES NOT HOSPITAL.
DOES MORE TESTS, DOES MORE
PRESCRIPTIONS.
IT'S REALLY ABOUT HEALTH AND
WELLNESS AT THE OUTSET.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY
SULLIVAN, WHAT ELSE NEEDS TO
BE.
WE KNOW THERE ARE-- TO CUT
BENEFITS TO RAISE PREMIUMS,
TO MAKE IT HARDER-- HARDER
FOR PEOPLE AT VARIOUS INCOME
LEVELS TO ACCESS MEDICARE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK NEEDS TO
BE DONE TO MAKE THESE
PROGRAMS SUSTAINABLE?
>> WELL, I BELIEVE THAT
ANOTHER THING THAT WE CAN DO,
FOR EXAMPLE, THE 20th
CENTURY WAS A TREMENDOUS
GROWTH IN THE SKUN TIFIC
COMMUNITY WITH MANY ADVANCES
THAT REALLY WERE MIRACLES.
WE HAVE DEVELOPED VACCINES
OF ALL KINDS.
WHEN I WAS A MEDICAL STUDENT
I TOOK CARE OF PATIENTS WITH
PARALYTIC POLIO IN THE MID
50s.
WHEN THE POLIO VACCINE WAS
INTRODUCED, OVERNIGHT POLIO
ALMOST DISAPPEARED FROM OUR
COUNTRY.
BUT WE HAVE A
MISUNDERSTANDING THAT SOME
OF OUR CITIZENS, ABOUT THE
VALUE OF VACCINES, WHERE
PEOPLE HAVE
MISUNDERSTANDINGS.
SO THEY'RE NOT USING THESE
ADVANCES THAT HAVE BEEN MADE
PROPERLY.
SO THAT'S WHY I SAY WE NEED
TO IMPROVE THE HEALTH
LITERACY OF OUR CITIZENS,
HAVE THEM UNDERSTAND THE
VALUE OF THESE SCIENTIFIC
ADVANCES AND THEY HAVE TO BE
PARTNERS WITH THE HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS TO SEE THAT
THEY GET THE CARE THAT THEY
NEED.
THE 21st CENTURY IS GOING TO
BE A CENTURY IN WHICH OUR
CITIZENS PLAY A MORE ACTIVE
ROLE IN MAINTAINING THEIR
HEALTH, WORKING WITH THEIR
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS BUT WE
ALSO NEED TO HAVE NEW KINDS
OF HEALTH PROFESSIONALS.
WE DON'T NEED STOCK TORES OR
DENTISTS IN EVERY TOWN OR
HAMLET.
WE HAVE DEVELOPED PHYSICIAN
ASSISTANCES, NURSE, THEY ARE
DEVELOPING-- WE-- MIDLEVEL
DENTAL PROVIDERS, WE CAN GET
CARE TO CITIZENS AT LEGS
COSTS SO THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF THINGS QUESTION DO TO
CHANGE THE WAY WE PROVIDE
CARE AND KEEP OUR COSTS
UNDER CONTROL.
>> Woodruff: JUST QUICKLY,
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD?
>> WELL, I THINK HE'S RIGHT.
AND I THINK THE NOTION THAT
PEOPLE NEED MORE INFORMATION,
THEY WANT TO STAY HEALTHY.
THEY DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
TO DO.
BUT THAT IN THE LONG RUN,
FOCUS ON PREVENTION AND AWAY
FROM ACUTE CARE, HAVING A
REAL HEALTH-CARE SYSTEM, NOT
A SICK CARE SYSTEM IS REALLY
WHAT I THINK THE GOAL IS IN
THE LONG RUN.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, SECRETARY
LOUIS SULLIVAN, WE
APPRECIATE YOU BEING WITH US
ON THIS 50th ANNIVERSARY OF
MEDICARE AND MEDICAID, THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU, AN HAPPY
ANNIVERSARY.
>> Ifill: EARLIER THIS WEEK, WE
SHOWED YOU A NATIONAL HISTORY
PROGRAM THAT TEACHES HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENTS ABOUT WORLD WAR TWO AND
D-DAY, BY HAVING THEM FOLLOW THE
LIFE OF A U.S. SERVICE MEMBER
FROM THEIR OWN COMMUNITY TO THE
AMERICAN CEMETERY IN NORMANDY,
FRANCE.
TONIGHT, THE NEWSHOUR'S APRIL
BROWN HAS THE STORY OF HOW ONE
OF THOSE STUDENT'S RESEARCH
PROJECTS UNITED FAMILIES FROM
TWO CONTINENTS.
IT'S PART OF OUR "AMERICAN
GRADUATE" SERIES, A PUBLIC MEDIA
INITIATIVE FUNDED BY
THE CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
JUST A FEW MONTHS AGO JUDY
SHOEMAKER OF IMMEDIATEVILLE,
PENNSYLVANIA, HAD NO IDEA
SHE HAD FRENCH FAMILY
MEMBERS LONGING TO CONNECT.
>> I'M SO HAPPY.
>> Reporter: DECADES AFTER
LOSING TOUCH, RELATIONS ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE ATLANTIC
MET AT THE AMERICAN CEMETERY
IN NORMANDY TO HONOR A WORLD
WAR II SOLDIER KILLED IN
ACTION JUST AFTER THE D-DAY
INVASION OF JUNE 6th,944 1.
>> 6:00, D-DAY, LANDING TIME
FOR THE FIRST BEECHHEAD
BOATS.
>> THOUGH HE WAS BORN A
FRENCHMAN, PIERRE ROBINSON
DIED A SERGEANT IN THE U.S.
ARMY.
HE WAS THE ADOPTED SON OF
SHOEMAKER'S GRANDFATHER,
JOHN ROB ROBINSON.
>> HE WAS VERY QUIET AND
VERY MANNERLY.
>> I HEARD THAT GRANDPA
LOVED HIM VERY MUCH.
HE SAID THAT I HEARD THAT HE
WAS KILLED AND GRANDPA WAS
VERY SAD AND NEVER REALLY
GOT OVER THAT.
I OFTEN WONDERED OVER THE
YEARS, IF ANY MEMBERS OF THE
FAMILY ON HIS SIDE WERE
STILL ALIVE.
>> Reporter: THERE WERE.
AND THEY WERE INTERESTED IN
THEIR AMERICAN FAMILY.
>> I'M PIERRE'S SECOND
COUSIN.
SO PIERRE'S MOTHER IS MY
GRANDMOTHER'S SISTER.
>> GILLES HAD BEEN TRYING TO
REACH OUT TO PIERRE'S
AMERICAN FAMILY FOR YEARS.
>> I HEARD ABOUT PIERRE FROM
MY GRANDPARENTS.
I HAD HEARD ABOUT MY GREAT
UNCLE AND MY GREAT AUNT WHO
LIVED IN IMMEDIATEVILLE.
>> BUT THE FAMILIES NEVER
CONNECTED UNTIL A
IMMEDIATEVILLE AREA
HIGH-SCHOOL STUDENT JOSH
SLAYTON BEGAN LOOKING INTO
THE SOLDIER'S
LIFE-AND-DEATH.
>> THROUGH ALL THESE MONTHS
OF RESEARCH YOU REALLY DO
FEEL LIKE YOU KNOW THIS
PERSON.
FO Reporter: IN MARCH BERE
HEADING TO FRANCE, THE
IMMEDIATEVILLE TRIBUNE
PROFILEJOSHD AND HIS
EFFORTS TO FIND OUT MORE
ABOUT PIERRE.
>> AND THAT LEAD TO MEETING
JUDEY SHOEMAKER.
>> I WENT GENTLEMEN, FINALLY.
FINALLY SOMEBODY RECOGNIZES
AN ODE MAN WITH AN
EXTRAORDINARY STORY.
>> Reporter: PIERRE WAS BORN
IN FRANCE IN 1914.
HIS BIRTH MOTTER-- MOTHER
WOULD DIE JUST TWO YEARS
LATER KILLED IN ACTION
DURING WORLD WAR ONE.
HIS MOTHER BLANCHE REMARRIED
IN 1920 AND HER NEWS HUSBAND
WAS JUDY SHOE MAKEARY
GRANDFATHER JOHN ROBINSON AN
AMERICAN SOLDIER STILL
STATIONED IN FRANCE AFTER
THE WAR.
ROBINSON ADOPTED PIERRE AND
MOVED TO PENNSYLVANIA WHERE
PIERRE WOULD SPEND THE REST
OF HIS CHILDHOOD.
IN 1941 PIERRE ENLISTED IN
THE U.S. ARMY AND BY 1944,
SARBLING ENT ROBINSON BECAME
ONE OF THOUSANDS OF SOLDIERS
TAKING PART IN OPERATION
OVERLORD, THE CODE NAME FOR
THE ALLIED INVASION OF
FRANCE.
>> THIS MORNING WE WENT TO
OMAHA BEACH AND THAT WAS
REALLY AMAZING BECAUSE THAT
IS THE BEACH THAT HE
ACTUALLY CAME IN ON ON JUNE
6th, 1944, D-DAY.
>> IT WAS JUST REALLY
AMAZING TO FEEL LIKE WE WERE
THERE WITH PIERRE.
>> Reporter: THROUGH THE
CLOUD GAPS THE AIRBORNE
SPEARHEADS SAW SOMETHING OF
THE INVASION ARMADA.
>> YOU SEE IN ALL THE
PICTURES, ALL OF THE SHIPS
AND LANDINGS CRAFTS ALL OUT
IN THE CHANNEL.
AND JUST TO SEE HOW MUCH THINGS
HAVE CHANGED BUT STILL YOU
CAN JUST IMAGINE HOW MASSIVE
THIS INVASION WAS.
>> Reporter: PIERRE HAD MADE
IT BACK TO FRANCE BUT WITH
NEVER AGAIN MEET HIS FRENCH
FAMILY.
AT HIS GRAVE SITE WITH THE
FRENCH AMERICAN FAMILIES
TOGETHER AFTER SO MANY YEARS,
JOSH DELIVERED A EULOGY TO
PIERRE.
>> PIERRE SURVIVED THE
INITIAL LANDING BUT ON THE
AFTERNOON OF JUNE 7th, 1944,
A THIRD BATTALION WAS FACING
STRONG OPPOSITION JUST
BELOW-- .
WHILE OUT ON PATROL PIERRE
WAS KILLED BY A RIFLEMAN.
IN THE REFLECTIVE WORDS OF
PIERRE'S ADOPTED FATHER JOHN
ROBINSON, I COULDN'T HAVE
HAD A BETTER SON IF I HAD
ONE OF MY OWN.
>> Reporter: PIERRE'S MOTHER
BLANCHE REQUESTED HER SON BE
BURIED IN A PERMANENT
AMERICAN CEMETERY IN FRANCE,
THE ONE NEAREST TO WHERE HE
GAVE HIS LIFE.
>> WAR CAN TAKE AWAY THINGS
THAT CAN NEVER BE GIVEN BACK.
IT CAN BREAK FAMILIES.
>> Reporter: THE AMERICAN
AND FREFERNING FAMILIES
BEGAN TO LOSE TOUCH AFTER
BLANCHE DEATH THREE YEARS
LATER.
NOW THEY ARE FINALLY
REUNITED.
>> THERE IS A SENSE THAT
THERE'S MORE HERE THAN
AMERICAN STUDENTS.
IT'S KIND OF TOO BEAUTIFUL
TO BE TRUE.
>> Reporter: THESE COUSINS
ARE NOW IN REGULAR CONTACT
WITH EACH OTHER, AS WELL AS
JOSH AND JOHN.
AND THEY ALL PLAN TO KEEP IN
TOUCH MAKING SURE PIERRE'S
STORY LIVES ON.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
APRIL BROWN IN NORMANDY,
FRANCE.
A NEWS UPDATE, AN
INVESTIGATION IS UNDER WAY
TO DETERMINE WHETHER DEBRIS
FOUND OFF THE EAST COAST OF
MADAGASCAR COULD BE FROM
MISSING MALAYSIA AIRLINES
FLIGHT MH 370.
A LARGE OBJECT WASHED ASHORE
ON REUNION, A FRENCH ISLAND
IN THE WESTERN INDIAN OCEAN.
AN UNNAMED U.S. OFFICIAL
TOLD THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
INVESTIGATORS HAVE QUOTE A
HIGH DEGREE OF CONFIDENCE
THAT IT IS A WING FLAP THAT
BELONGS TO THE SAME TYPE OF
AIRCRAFTS THAT THE MISSING
PLANE.
THE BOEING 777 DISAPPEARED
WITHOUT A TRACE IN MARCH OF
2014 WITH 2 PRESIDENT PEOPLE
ON BOARD.
>> Ifill: NOW TO OUR "NEWSHOUR
SHARES" OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
IN A DIFFERENT TYPE OF OCEAN
SEARCH, DIVERS ANNOUNCED THIS
WEEK THAT THEY'D DISCOVERED, IN
A 300-YEAR-OLD SHIPWRECK, BURIED
TREASURE VALUED AT MORE THAN ONE
MILLION DOLLARS.
WE SPOKE WITH BRENT BRISBEN, THE
OWNER OF THE COMPANY THAT
SALVAGED THE COLLECTION OF GOLD
COINS AND CHAINS IN SHALLOW
WATERS OFF FLORIDA'S COAST, NEAR
FOR PIERCE.
>> NOW.
>> MY COMPANY OWNED THE
EXCLUSIVE SALVAGE RIGHTS TO
THE REMAINS OF THE HISTORIC
1715 TREASUR- AE-ND EVERY
ONCE IN A WHILE WE COME UP
ON AN AMAZING TREASURE TROVE
OF ARTIFACTS LIKE YOU SEE
TODAY.
WE RECOVERED 61 GOLD COINS
AND NEARLY 40 FEET OF GOLD
CHAIN THAT WERE ALL SPANISH
IN ORIGIN, ALL AT LEAST 300
YEARS OLD.
THEY SANK ON JULY 31st OF
1715.
AND THE ARTIFACTS IN TOTAL
ARE WORTH OVER A MILLION
DOLLARS.
>> .
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE
OUT THERE SEARCHING FOR
THESE ARD FACTS.
AND THE VAST MAJORITY OF
THEM DO NOT FIND LARGE CACHE
OF GOLD SUCH AS THIS.
AND SO TREASURE HUNTING IS A
VERY METHODICAL KIND
-OF-PAINSTAKING PROCESS
WHEREBY YOU CONTINUE TO GO
OUT DAY AFTER DAY FINDING
BEER CANS AND LEAD FISHING
SINKERS AND YOU HAVE TO
PERSEVERE THROUGH THOSE HOT
LONG DAYS IN THE FLORIDA SUN
TO HOPEFULLY EXPERIENCE A
DAY LIKE THEAMIL FY
EXPERIENCED.
>> Ifill: THAT'S A WAY TO SPEND
A VACATION.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW: SOMETIMES NOTHING CUTS THE
SUMMER HEAT LIKE A CRISP,
CARBONATED BEVERAGE.
IN FACT SALES OF CARBONATED
WATER HAVE SPIKED IN THE LAST
FIVE YEARS.
SO WHAT IS IT ABOUT FIZZ THAT WE
CRAVE?
THE SHORT ANSWER IS WE DON'T
KNOW, BUT SCIENTISTS HAVE BEEN
STUDYING HOW THESE BUBBLES
INTERACT WITH OUR BODY'S TASTE
SENSORS.
YOU CAN READ WHAT THEY'VE FOUND,
ON OUR HOME PAGE:
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: TUNE IN LATER THIS
EVENING.
ON NOVA TONIGHT, A MINUTE-BY-
MINUTE LOOK AT THE FUKUSHIMA
NUCLEAR CRISIS-- MILES O'BRIEN
ON WHY ONE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT
SUFFERED A MELTDOWN AND HOW THE
EXTRAORDINARY EFFORTS OF
JAPANESE UTILITY WORKERS SAVED A
SECOND PLANT FROM SUFFERING THE
SAME FATE.
THAT'S TONIGHT ON MOST PBS
STATIONS.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY: HUMANS NEED NOT
APPLY.
MAKING SENSE OF HOW ROBOTS
ARE CHANGING THE ECONOMY.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.